We made good progress here on the auth screen and you learned a lot of useful patterns for working with
styling and making sure that you have a good and reusable way of styling your components,
let's now improve the styling of this auth page by adding a background image.
To dive into the official documentation,
you can dive into the images guide there and there, they'll actually mention that they have a built-in,
so they the react native team, they have a built-in background image element here,
Imagebackground. So let's use that, let's go back to our application and on the auth screen, let's import
image background, now image background should wrap the entire content of our view so let's try using
it like this let's add image background here inside of our container view
and let's wrap everything with image background, like this.
And now we need to set a source and source is just set as on a normal image, could fetch it from the network
or here, I actually attached a file to this lecture, background.jpeg which I want to use,
so let's import. Let's import it and store it maybe in a variable essentially named background image
from and now I'll simply navigate to assets background.jpeg,
react can then automatically figure out all the details about this image
and let's now pass background image as a source
and let's see what we end up with.
Now strangely enough, here we get an error that width is undefined, the reason for this error is that
when using image background, we actually need to set a width, so on image background,
we actually need to add a style where we set the width of it.
So let's quickly add this, background image seems to be an appropriate style property, let's set the width
to maybe 100% and then let's assign this here,
so I'll reach out to styles background image. Restructure this and save it and now if we reload the app,
now we got our background image but only behind our text inputs and not anywhere else, not behind our
buttons and also not behind our text here, on Android it looks a bit different
so it's a styling thing on iOS as it seems
but still we also see that our text is now messed up, our whole centering is now messed up.
That actually makes a lot of sense if you consider the fact that we wrapped all our content with image
background but that we are inside our container view here.
Now keep in mind, it's that container view that uses flex box and centers all its child elements but only
the direct child elements
and the only child element now is image background, so correctly it is centered, the child elements of
image background then are not centered.
So how can we break this up?
Let's first of all try to wrap our view with it,
so reverse the order here, restructure the code and now reload,
now it's completely broken,
so this certainly didn't fix it.
Now why is it broken?
Because now we wrap everything with image background
but the view in there tries to take up all the space it has with flex 1,
now the direct parent of the view is no longer our screen wrapper which actually would have provided that
because it implicitly also set flex 1
but now the parent of the view is image background.
So we need to go to image background and now actually set flex one here too,
so that now the container can actually really take a lot of space
and now all of a sudden, this looks much better and we've got quite a nice login screen here,
well if we ignore the fact that this looks very ugly on iOS.
So let's quickly toggle the inspector and let's have a look at this,
if we have a look at this text element here,
we see that we don't set a white background color.
Let's try a little trick here and let's set background color here to transparent, that looks much better,
so what we should do is we should go to our main text component and now add background color transparent,
that's pretty awesome,
now we already see one advantage of this. By changing it in one place,
we will actually be able to use that whenever we well want to have transparent background and wrap any
text with it to always avoid this issue.
Now on the button we got the same issue, we got this white background, not a transparent one,
now to fix this let's go to our auth.js file and let's actually style our buttons,
let's try to style them. So let's add a style handler here, style property,
let's try some inline style first so I'm just assigning an object here
and set the background color to transparent. Save this,
let's wait for this to reload
and this didn't fix it,
so this still looks ugly.
Actually the issue here is that the whole idea behind this button is that it automatically provides
some styling for both iOS and Android that automatically adapts,
for that reason we can't change that styling from outside which of course is our problem here. The solution
of course is to create our own custom button which we can do.
So let's create such a custom button element in the next lecture,
we'll later then also revisit it to make sure that it also adjusts itself to different environments.